I. Steps to Start a Node.js Project
1.Open the terminal and navigate to your project folder.
2.Run the following command to initialize a new Node.js project:
$ npm init

3.Answer the prompts:
~Project name: Enter your project name.
~Version: Press enter to keep the default version.
~Description: Provide a brief description of your project.
~Entry point: Enter index.js (or any other file name you prefer as the entry point).
~Test command: Press enter to skip.
Git repository: Press enter to skip.
~Keywords: Leave it empty and press enter.
~License: Press enter to keep the default license.

4. After answering these questions, a package.json file will be generated inside the folder. This file contains key-value pairs representing your project's metadata.

5 Create the Entry Point File
Create a new file named index.js (or the name you specified as the entry point) inside your project folder.

6.  Run Your File
$ node filename

II. Understanding Modules in Node.js

1. What are Modules?
Modules are a set of functions that you want to include in your application. They help in organizing and structuring your code.

Built-in Modules
Node.js has a set of built-in modules that you can use without any additional installation. Examples include:
Readline Module
File System Module (fs)
Path Module
For more built-in modules, refer to the Node.js documentation.

Including a Module in Your Application
To include a module in your application, use the require function. Here’s the syntax for including the File System (fs) module:
 const fs = require('fs');

III. npm package
"npm," short for Node Package Manager, is used to install packages (code written by other developers) to simplify our work. I can also publish a package on the npm website.

To publish a package on the npm website, you must create an account. Here are the steps:

Create a folder on your local system.
Open the terminal and run the command npm init.
This will create a package.json file.
Create a file named index.js and write your code logic.
In the terminal, run npm publish to publish your package.

IV. Web Scraping
Web scraping, also known as web harvesting or web data extraction, is a very useful process used to gather content and data from the internet. This data is often stored in a local file so it can be processed & analyzed later. This is exactly what web scraping is (but in a very small scale since you have likely tried to copy and paste content from a website into an excel sheet).

Nonetheless, when people talk of “web scrapers,” they typically mean software applications. Web scraping applications (bots) are programmed to visit sites, extract the pages, and retrieve the requested data. This enables these bots to pull vast amounts of data in a matter of seconds from this website itself.

web Scraping used for
1.Price Monitoring
2.Market Research
3.News Monitoring
4.Sentiment Analysis
5. Email Marketing

V. Server Builnding

1. What is a Server?
backend is a logical code running on the server 
 A Server is simply a computer that listens for incomming requests.
 Any computer that is connected to a network can act as an Server
 where does the requestes go?
 The requestes made by the Server goes to the back-end.
  Back-end
 The back-end is the technology required to process the incoming requeste and genrate and send the response to the Client.
  Client?
 The Client are anything that sends requestes to the back-end.
  They are often browsers that make requests for the HTML and JavaScript code that they will execute to display websites
  to the users.
   HTTP?
The Internet is a massive distributed Client/Server information system
Many applications are running concurrently over the Web, such as web browsing/surfing, e-mail, file transfer, audio & video streaming etc..
In order for proper communication to take place between the client and the server, these applications must agree on a specific application level protocol such as HTTP, FTP, SMTP, POP, and etc.


Building a Server with Node.js
In Node.js, we use the 'http' module to create servers. The server's job is to handle requests and send responses.

Server Functions
Requests and Responses: Every time a server is created using Node.js, it needs to open a specific port. This port is where it listens for incoming requests and sends responses back out.

Role of Server Software: Software such as Apache, Nginx, Tomcat, Glassfish, etc., turn a regular computer into a powerful server. Node.js, on the other hand, uses its 'http' module for similar purposes.

Purpose of Server Software
These server softwares (like Apache, Nginx, etc.) primarily serve two functions:

Handle Requests: They receive requests that come in through specific ports.
Send Responses: They then send back appropriate responses based on those requests.


127.0.0.1 => Pc Ip address
localhost => domain of PC 
End point => API url is also called endpoint
A Requests and Responses both has two parts 
Header and body
Header of any api represents meta data => basic information of your API
Body stores the actual data

 CavemanServerBuilding
 has a index.js file 
 This file contains some dummy APIs, and this code cannot be used when the size of the projects increases. It will get muddled up, readability will decrease, and complexity will increase.

ExpressJs

